Ported the gdb backtrace from NAV2 (#4190)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/How-To-Guides/Get-Backtrace-in-ROS-2.rst

Reviewer: The file needs to be renamed to `Getting-Backtraces-in-ROS-2.rst`

Get Backtraces in ROS 2

> #######################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Getting Backtraces in ROS 2
###########################
```

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:

**Goal:**  Show various methods for getting backtraces in ROS 2 

**Tutorial level:** Intermediate

**Time:** 15 minutes

> The following steps show ROS 2 users how to get traces when they encounter a problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps show ROS 2 users how to get backtraces when they encounter a problem.
```

- It lists out the sequence of functions that were called, one on top of the other, leading up to the point of failure.

**Why is it Useful?**

- **Pinpoints the Problem:** Instead of guessing where in your code an error occurred, the backtrace shows you the exact line number responsible for the crash.
- **Reveals Context:** You can see the chain of events (functions calling other functions) that ultimately triggered the failure. 
  This helps you understand not just where things went wrong, but also why.

**Visual Analogy**:  Stack of Pancakes

1. Each Pancake is a Function: Imagine each pancake in a stack represents a function that your program is currently executing. 
   The pancake at the bottom is your main() function, where it all begins.

2. Adding Pancakes: Every time a function calls another function, a new pancake is placed on top of the stack.

3. The Crash: A crash is like the plate slipping out from the bottom of the stack – something went disastrously wrong in the function currently executing.

4. The Backtrace: The backtrace is like a photo of that fallen pancake stack. 

>    It shows the order of pancakes (functions)  from top to bottom, revealing how you ended up at the crash site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It shows the order of pancakes (functions) from top to bottom, revealing how you ended up at the crash site.
```

> **Code Example-**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Code Example:**
```

Preliminaries
-------------

GDB is the most popular debugger for C/C++ on Unix systems.
It can be used to determine the reason for a crash and track threads.
It may also be used to add breakpoints in your code to check values in memory at particular points in your software.

Using GDB is a critical skill for all software developers working on C/C++.
While many IDEs have some kind of debugger or profiler built in, it is important to understand how to use these raw tools you have available rather than relying on an IDE to provide them.
Understanding these tools is a fundamental skill of C/C++ development and leaving it up to your IDE can be problematic if you change roles and no longer have access to it or are doing development on the fly through an ssh session to a remote asset.

Using GDB luckily is fairly simple after you have the basics under your belt.
Here's how to ensure your ROS2 code is ready for debugging:

- By using ``--cmake-args``: The easiest way to include debug symbols is by adding ``--cmake-args -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug`` to your ``colcon build`` command:

.. code-block:: bash

  colcon build --packages-up-to <package_name> --cmake-args -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug 

> - By Editing ``CMakeLists.txt`` : Another way is to add ``-g`` to your compiler flags for the ROS package you want to profile / debug. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- By editing ``CMakeLists.txt`` : Another way is to add ``-g`` to your compiler flags for the ROS package you want to profile / debug. 
```

  This flag builds debug symbols that GDB can read to tell you specific lines of code in your project are failing and why.
  If you do not set this flag, you can still get backtraces but it will not provide line numbers for failures.

Now you're ready to debug your code!
If this was a non-ROS project, at this point you might do something like below.
Here we're launching a GDB session and telling our program to immediately run.
Once your program crashes, it will return a gdb session prompt denoted by ``(gdb)``.
At this prompt you can access the information you're interested in.
However, since this is a ROS project with lots of node configurations and other things going on, this isn't a great option for beginners or those that don't like tons of commandline work and understanding the filesystem.

.. code-block:: bash

  gdb ex run --args /path/to/exe/program

> Below are sections to describe the 3 major situations you could run into with ROS 2-based systems. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below are sections to describe the three major situations you could run into with ROS 2-based systems. 
```

GDB's output and interaction will happen within the terminal session where you launched the ROS 2 application.
Here's an similar example for the ``'start_sync_slam_toolbox_node'`` -

.. code-block:: python

  start_sync_slam_toolbox_node = Node(
    parameters=[
        get_package_share_directory("slam_toolbox") + '/config/mapper_params_online_sync.yaml',
        {'use_sim_time': use_sim_time}
    ],
    package='slam_toolbox',
    executable='sync_slam_toolbox_node',
    name='slam_toolbox',
    prefix=['gdb -ex run --args'],  # For GDB within the launch terminal
    output='screen')

Just as before, this prefix will launch a GDB session, now in ``xterm`` and run the launch file you requested with all the additional launch arguments defined.

Once your node crashes, you'll see a prompt like below, now in the ``xterm`` session. 
At this point you can now get a backtrace, and read it using the instructions in `Reading the Stack Trace`_.

From a Large Project
--------------------
Working with launch files with multiple nodes is a little different so you can interact with your GDB session without being bogged down by other logging in the same terminal.

> For this reason, when working with larger launch files, its good to pull out the specific node you're interested in and launching it separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason, when working with larger launch files, it is a good idea to pull out the specific node you're interested in and launch it separately.
```

If your node of interest is being launched from a nested launch file (e.g. an included launch file) you may want to do the following:

- Comment out the launch file inclusion from the parent launch file

- Recompile the package of interest with ``-g`` flag for debug symbols

- Launch the parent launch file in a terminal

- Launch the node's launch file in another terminal following the instructions in `From a Launch File`_.

> Alternatively, if your node of interest is being launched in these files directly (e.g. you see a ``Node``, ``LifecycleNode``, or inside a ``ComponentContainer``), you will need to seperate this from the others:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if your node of interest is being launched in these files directly (e.g. you see a ``Node``, ``LifecycleNode``, or inside a ``ComponentContainer``), you will need to separate this from the others:
```

- Comment out the node's inclusion from the parent launch file

- Recompile the package of interest with ``-g`` flag for debug symbols

- Launch the parent launch file in a terminal

> - Launch the server's node in another terminal following the instructions in `Debugging a specific node with GDB`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Launch the node in another terminal following the instructions in `Debugging a specific node with GDB`_.
```

.. note::

  In this case you may need to remap or provide parameter files to this node if it was previously provided by the launch file.
  Using ``--ros-args`` you can give it the path to the new parameters file, remaps, or names.
  See :doc:`this tutorial <../../How-To-Guides/Node-arguments>` for the commandline arguments required.

  We understand this can be a pain, so it might encourage you to rather have each node possible as a separately included launch file to make debugging easier. 
  An example set of arguments might be ``--ros-args -r __node:=<node_name> --params-file /absolute/path/to/params.yaml`` (as a template).

> Once your node crashes, you'll see a prompt like below in the specific server's terminal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your node crashes, you'll see a prompt like below in the terminal of the specific node. 
```
